## Step 4
##  Service to Service communication

In our previous example, to test the service we port-forwarded to a remote pod  using the pod name. But in a real world scenario, one deployment consists of several replicas of the app and it is not advisable to connect to a single pod directly.

How to be abstract the underlying pods and use a single reference for an application? This is where Services and Routes comes into picture.


Services and Routes are provides an abstracted url to pods very much like the domain urls. But the key difference is that the names exposed by service is local to the cluster whereas the URLs exposed from the routes can be acessed outside the cluster.

Service and Routes leverage the internal HA proxy and Kubernetes Ingress components for it to work.

### Service creation 

For our existing application, lets create a service and use service for port-forwarding.

```
oc create service clusterip springbootapp -o yaml --dry-run=client --tcp=9000:8100 \
    | oc set selector --local -f - \
    'deployment=springbootapp' -o yaml | oc create -f -
service/springboot-app created
```

Above commands create a ``clusterip`` Service for the pods defined by the ``selector`` i.e. pods with label ``deployment=springboot-app`` will be abstracted with the url.


#### Let's port-forward the service connection and test our service:

```
oc port-forward svc/springbootapp 9000:9000
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:9000 -> 8100
Forwarding from [::1]:9000 -> 8100
```

Notice the command ``oc port-forward``. We are using a service instead of pod unlike our prevoious example.

#### Test

        % curl localhost:9000/appname
        config-map-app%


### Route creation 

 Openshift routes are an extension for K8s Ingress used to expose the service to the outside world. let's try it out.

 ```
  oc expose svc/springbootapp
  route.route.openshift.io/springbootapp exposed
 ```

Now that we have the route, we don't need port forwarding to test our app:

Get the public url using the describe command:

    ```

    oc describe route/springbootapp
    Name:			springbootapp
    Namespace:		dev-apps
    Created:		About a minute ago
    Labels:			app=springbootapp
    Annotations:		openshift.io/host.generated=true
    Requested Host:		springbootapp-dev-apps.apps.dbs-indo-1.apac-1.rht-labs.com
            exposed on router default (host router-default.apps.dbs-indo-1.apac-1.rht-labs.com) about a minute ago
    ```

  URL in our case is http://springbootapp-dev-apps.apps.dbs-indo-1.apac-1.rht-labs.com


  Let's test the url :

  ```
  % curl  http://springbootapp-dev-apps.apps.dbs-indo-1.apac-1.rht-labs.com/appname
  config-map-app%
  ```

  Hurray! We have now an exposed our rest service to the outside world. Since our cluster is internet facing, it is better to delete the route for now to avoid bad actors snooping in.

  We can dig deep into routes (load balancing etc,) at a later stage.

  ```
    oc delete route/springbootapp
    route.route.openshift.io "springbootapp" deleted
  ```

## Service to service communication

Two services (rest services or deployments) uses each others service /route reference to communicate. We will see detailed working example when we setup the Spring config server.